Β PREFACE.

‚ good masters may notbe loth to run over with your scho-
ἔατε, Ι will tell you in short, what good you may expect
rom lt·

dtis a little hook as you see, of no great bulh, yet s
brief ol the whole world, and a whole language ; full os
pictum, nomenclatores, and descriptione os things.

l. The pictores are the representationsof all visihle
things, (to which also things invisible are reduced after
their fashion) of the whole world. And that in thet very
orderof things, in which they are described in the Jonas
Latine Lingua ,· and with that sulness that nothing very
necessary, or of great concernment, is omitted.

2. The nomenclatores are the inscriptions or titles, set
every one over their own picturas, expressing the whole
thing by its own general term.

3. The descriptioni are the explicatione of the parts
ol the picture, so expressed by their own proper terme,
as that same figure which is added to every piece of the
picture, and the termes it, always showeth what things
belong one to another.

Which such bools, and in such adress, may (1 hope)
serve,

1. To entire witty children to ir, that they may not con·
ceit a torment to be in the school, but dainty fare. F or
it is apparent, that children (even from their inlancy
almost) are delighted with pictores, and willingly plesse
their eyes with these sightsr and it will be very well
worth the paine to have once brought it to pass, that scare-
erows may be taken away out of wisdom's gardens.

2. This same little book will serve to seir up the atten-
tion which isto he sostened upon things, and everto he
charncned more and morer which is also a great matter3
sor the senses (being the main ghides of childhood, be.
cause therein the mind deth not as yet raise up itself to
au abstractos contemplation of things) evermore seek
their own objects, and if they be away, they grew dull,¹
and wvy themselves hither and thither outof awearipesv
oi themselves: hut when their objecta are present, they y
grew merry, wax lively, and willingly suffer themselves
to be maeret upon theim till the thing be sufficiently
mense. This book then will dea good piece or ser-

l
l

 

